## Black and White

I’m an engineer, I program, I code for things to work. There are always two sides for things to work

- either it is good or either it’s not,
- either it’s correct or either is not correct,
- either it will work or either it will not!

Exactly! Either it will work - term it as White may be or either it will not work at all - term it
as Black. There is no Grey, there is no other color in between. I believe Life should be like this,
no midways. You cannot really keep sailing in the ocean, you have to come to one side of the shore.

Decision needs to be deterministic and hence the outcome - either it works or it will not. If they
aren't deterministic, one just keeps on lingering around on each side.

Taking an example, in July 2019, soon after coming back from my birthday and an amazing rock
climbing trip, I wanted to go for sabbatical break from professional life for about year and a half.
I knew no one in the family and close friends would agree to it and questions pondered upon me
related to financials, at the age where all people around me were settling down; I just wanted to do
the opposite. I was not deterministic about it; will it work, what happens if I'm short of money,
what happens if I don't get a job? The thought just kept on lingering for almost four months, and I
couldn't really decide! Eventually 2nd December 2019 was the day when I just left the corporate
world, living a dirtbag life.

The thought around "what would be the circumstances, what would be the outcome" makes it difficult
for a person to make a decision. Who would knew that Covid Pandemic would hit in April 2020
worldwide? The decisions are to be made there and then, you can't really bring in the past or the
future to make a decision. The decisions are made based on the circumstances and conditions
prevailing at this very moment; you make it work right now or not!

In short, for me, every decision I have taken, those are all If-Else conditions, either it works or
it doesnt. So why we are just lingering around in thoughts? There’s no point to just keep thinking
and not doing it, right?

I believe everything is Black and White, either it’s a Tail or Head, or 0 or 1 - Like I said I’m an
engineer, I program, I code - I like to play in 0 and 1! Make a decision, either it will work or
either it doesn't and off-course you can retrospect the decision later, but you need to take a step. 
