#### Failure or Opportunity

A lot of times one fails in life, it can be on personal front or professional. Failure is a failure,
isn't it?

Like taking a personal incident, I failed on three of my products I had built and was able to
convert the second last product into a win. After the two successive failures, either I could have
stopped then and there or continued further and try my best to build something new. Indeed, there
were a lot of losses in terms of expenses and on personal front as well. Expenses and money is
something which one can earn through variety of ways, but loosing interest or getting demotivated
are actually the major thing. But, I didn't stop there! I started to work on another idea and during
the course I had lost the interest quite a times, failed, got exhausted, frustrated, but never lost
it whole. That product took me around three years to develop and finally it was converted!

Now when I look back, if I had stopped working after the failure of first 2 products, I wouldn't
have had the taste of a win. I realised that I had converted those two failures into an opportunity,
by not stopping and not letting the circumstances take over me. Indeed, it took me about three years
to develop and a lot of re-work, discussions and what not.

So should we really stop or get demotivated when we face failure, or take that as an opportunity to
do better? Gradually I'm learning to do the later, it is indeed difficult, but I just try my best.

Over the period of time, I have learnt the atomic habit of trying to convert such failures and
circumstances into opportunity - I haven't learnt completely and would say that I'm still in that
learning phase. Not everytime it works, but why to just be down and demotivated and not trying
to come up from there, eventually start again?

Like couple of years back when I started slacklining, I would just sit on slackline and do nothing.
That was the time I would usually give up, I didn't have the attitude to actually overcome the fear
of falling or failure to stand-up. So, what was the outcome - failure over failures!

Another recent very personal incident that I had. Lost a very close friend, I was out doing my first
winter highline project. Then one day I get the news about his demise, and I was just lost! But,
then I didn't want that incident, or the circumstance take over my mind - not saying that it didn't,
so I took that as an opportunity and then went to do the thing which I had come for. Not only that,
during that time I was going through tough times, things weren't really going through as I would
have expected, had a small accident as well. But, then I didn't want these things to stop me, I just
tried to have the atomic habit of trying to convert the failure or circumstance into an opportunity.
Close friends said, I shouldn't have done it, but I just did.

So the question now I ask myself when I'm in such situations or going through failures - should I
stop or keep continuing? And, now I just force my mind not to stop and try converting each of those
failures into opportunity. Each time I try to fight a failure, I make a small win and eventually
sooner or later all of those are converted them a win.

But then at times I also think that are these making me vulnerable to myself only. So I still need
to work on my attitude to such failures and find the best possible way of handling and doing things.