#### Quite

What it is like to be quiet? What it is like to be observant? What it is to be like an un-reactive
element?

The universe is made up of just particles, the human body, plants, animals or any other lifeforms or
no life form. You breathe, you feel something, you move you feel something, you think - something is
felt. The feeling is nothing, but a small ignite to those particles. When ignited, they can either
transform the suppressed energy into sweetness or either destruction or pain you may call it. Over
the period of time these particles keep on accumulating the thoughts which your mind harnesses. The
thoughts are nothing but energies, either constructive, destructive or neutral, as are Protons,
Electrons or Neutrons in ParticlePhysics. None can exist alone - but a balance of each is required
to maintain the stability.

You harness a bad thought, it will overwhelm the other two. You harness a positive thought, it will
again overwhelm the other two. Eventually if you keep harnessing a particular thought, then that
specific set of particles are ignited and everything becomes unbalanced - the most harnessed will
show their effect or affect, which depends on what you harnessed the most or if they all were
harnessed equally.

So one should really harness a positive, negative, or a neutral thought always? What should one
really harness, I really don't have an answer.

But on the same hand we also understand that these are very short-lived particles, not even micro
second. So harnessing a single particle is okay, but when we accumulate a large quantity of energy
within ourselves, they just live longer. Off-course it's up-to us, if we should really harness
anything or nothing at all?

I have somehow learned or in phase of learning, to harness the neutral energy. I have stopped
Reacting when my mind is ignited or in terms of physics, the particles are ignited. This has come
over a long time - probably due to the fact that I'm Quite, inward, which in turn implies that I'm
required to handle my emotions on my own rather than going outward to the outside world and speaking
about it. Due to which, somehow, there isn’t much constructive or destructive energy which is stored
within me, the ignition doesn’t do much, since there isn’t any energy which was conserved or stored.

Also, that doesn't imply I'm always Quiet, I do burst out or rather the conserved energy bursts out
if I keep on harnessing them for a longer time. And that's when I'm usually beyond my control,
either I become extremely quite or too aggressive.

But is it fine to be like this, is it okay not to harness the other two at all, or keep the balance
between other two? I'm not really sure, all I'm aware of is everything is impermanence - now or
later things will pass - that's the law of nature.

Still in learning phase..
